---
title: Mmvp.js
description: '&micro;-MvP library for building front-end user-interfaces.'
category: web
sort_index: 1
links:
    'Source' : http://github.com/something
    'Example Site': http://sdjfoidsfjoi.com
---

## Overview
Mmvp.js is micro-MVP javascript library for composing web-based UIs in which all DOM manipulation, templating, &amp; animation logic lives in several presenter callbacks.  Consider the following example:

<pre class='sh_javascript'>
var presenter = new Mmvp();
var model = {};

presenter.set_action({
    add: function(key, value) {
        console.log("key", key, "added with value", value);
    }
});

model.item_a = "hello";
presenter.sync(model);
</pre>

Each time a new model is passed to the `presenter.sync`, a diff is compared between the new model and the last model passed into sync. Depending on the diff, the correct corresponding  presenter callbacks are excuted. 

## API
Callbacks are set using `Mmvp.set_action` as seen above. The Bindable callbacks are:

<div class='block'><table class='code-table'>
<tr>
    <td>Key</td>
    <td>Arguments</td>
    <td>Called when:</td>
</tr>

<tr>
    <td><code>add</code></td>
    <td><code>key</code>,<code>value</code></td>
    <td>Item is added to the model</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><code>remove</code></td>
    <td><code>key</code>,<code>value</code></td>
    <td>Item is removed from the model</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><code>update</code></td>
    <td><code>key</code>,<code>value</code></td>
    <td>Item in model is updated</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><code>populate</code></td>
    <td><code>key</code>,<code>value</code></td>
    <td>Model goes from being empty to populated</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td><code>empty</code></td>
    <td><code>key</code>,<code>value</code></td>
    <td>Model goes from being populated to empty</td>
</tr>
</table></div>

## Final Thoughts
I created Mmvp after failing in my search to find a minimal micro-MVP architecture. In my mind, the architecture itself shouldn't have to be used in combination with the DOM at all. Infact one could construct a MVP interace with Mmvp.js that is not.

Below is the archetypal TodoMVC demo using Mmvp.js. The [demo code]() weighs in around 78 SLOC, the [framework itself]() is 46 SLOC.
